Welcome back in in this lesson we're going to look at function scope so function scope is how variables
are treated so global variables and local variables and how they get treated with insight being inside
of a function or outside of function.
When we declare a variable.
So let's go ahead and create a variable.
So just call it outside fun and we're going to give it a value of outside.
So this is a variable that we're creating and this is going to be a global variable basically meaning
that we can access it within our functions and outside of our functions as long as we're not reading
clearing it locally within our function.
So next thing we're going to do set up a function and I'm going to create another variable and this
time I'm going to create declare a variable called Inside fun and give it a value of inside.
Now we've got a variable that's only accessible locally within the function.
My fun.
So basically that also means that I can't access that same variable inside of another function.
So let's take a closer look and see how this works.
So if I console log inside of the function I can access outside fun so I can access the variable outside
fun.
And also if I console log inside fun I'll get a value for that as well.
And so let's call our function and let me show you what happens when I try to access the inside find
outside of the function scope.
So it's both of those up.
Save it refresh it and let's open up our console.
So we see that within the console we're we've got that first variable.
That outside we see because these two are being output in the console from within the function.
So we do have access to the inside variable but when we try to access that outside of a function we
no longer have access to it.
So this is one thing that I did want to show you within this lesson is that if you declare a variable
but you don't use the V.A. are to declare the variable.
Watch what happens to this inside one variable.
So when we refresh it and let's open that up within the console again and we see that we actually do
have access to it.
And remember this console log statement is actually sitting outside of the function.
So what happened here where we've got the actual coding that's actually sitting inside of the function
we're declaring it and yet we're still able to access it outside of the function.
So this was one of those quirks in regards to javascript where it tries to fix an error and it sees
that you're trying to call a variable called Inside fun and it doesn't actually see that within the
global scope.
But it does see that because it's the function has been initiated been run and it knows that there has
been a variable that's been been declared within the function.
It's called Inside fun.
And the other thing too that following the rules of javascript.
It also knows that when you're trying to access a variable that you would typically expect it that it's
already declared outside unless you're declaring it here.
So this is why by default it will go out to the global scope and it will be accessible outside of the
function.
And I'm just showing you this because this is a common error and a common mistake that's made when you're
writing javascript that if you're setting up variables and you set them up and you don't declare them
properly then they actually become global variables and you can have issues and errors in regards to
this and in general if we're not using any variables across multiple functions then we try not to actually
declare them globally unless it's actually absolutely necessary.
And this would be a really bad way to set up global variables because it is reliant on the function
aren't running.
So if I do come into the function I go back refresh the page and I take a look in the console we see
that inside.
Fun is not defined so it knows that that variable has not yet been defined but yet I'm trying to access
it.
So it is dependent on running the function in order to have access to that variable.
And this is something that you want to avoid just for that reason alone because having to set it up
within a function just does not work well.
So what I want you to do now is set up variables so have one variable on the outside and set up another
variable that you're actually declaring on the inside part of the function and then output them both
within the function and to try to free yourself just to get really familiar with how a function scope
works and get yourself familiar with setting up global variables as well as local variables within functions
because it's going to be a very important part of using javascript and I'm going to get rid of the statement
here because this is incorrect as we wouldn't be calling a function that would have been locally defined
within fun.
So go ahead try it yourself and just get used to working with local and global variables.